Sepsis is a life-threatening illness.
It is caused when your body has an extreme reaction to an infection.
Sepsis occurs when the chemicals your immune system releases
into your bloodstream to fight an infection
trigger inflammation throughout the body.
This inflammation can damage your organs
and they may stop working.
Without treatment sepsis may lead to death.
Sepsis is most common in:
Adults older than 65
Children younger than 1
People with weakened immune systems
People who have chronic medical conditions,
such as diabetes, kidney disease, cancer, or lung disease
Symptoms of sepsis include:
Fever, shivering, or feeling cold
Sweating or clammy skin
Fast heart rate
Difficulty breathing
Low blood pressure
Mental confusion
Pain or discomfort
If your doctor determines you have sepsis,
you’ll get medicines to stop the infection and manage your symptoms.
You may also get fluids through an IV or a machine for breathing.
Some people need kidney dialysis or
surgery to remove the source of the infection.
Sepsis ranges from mild to severe.
Most people recover from mild sepsis
when it’s identified early and treated quickly.
Without treatment, sepsis can progress quickly and the risk of death increases.